---
title: Biography
author: Emmanuel Bernard
layout: constant-sidebar
tab: home
---
  
# #{page.title}

If you need my biography for a conference, use the following one (available in English or French). You can also find my picture below.

## English

Emmanuel Bernard is data platform architect at JBoss by Red Hat and member of
the Hibernate team and just got a kid!

Emmanuel has spent a few years in the retail industry as developer and architect
where he started to be involved in the ORM space. He joined the Hibernate team
in 2003 and most of his work is open source since then.

Emmanuel has lead the JPA implementation of Hibernate ORM. He has founded and
lead Hibernate Search, Hibernate Validator. His latest project endeavour is
Hibernate OGM but he also contributes to Ceylon, Awestruct and a few other
projects in his spare time.

Emmanuel is a member of the JPA 2.1 expert group and the spec lead of Bean
Validation. He is a regular speaker at various conferences and JUGs, including
JavaOne, JBoss World and Devoxx and the co-author of [Hibernate Search in
Action](/books/hsia/) published by Manning. He is also founder and co-host of
two podcasts: [JBoss Community Asylum](http://asylum.jboss.org) and [Les Cast
Codeurs Podcast](http://lescastcodeurs.com).

You can follow him on twitter at
[@emmanuelbernard](http://twitter.com/emmanuelbernard).

## Français

Emmanuel Bernard est architecte plate-forme données à JBoss by Red Hat et un
membre de l'équipe Hibernate.

Emmanuel Bernard a passé quelques années dans le secteur de la grande
distribution où il a commencé à s'impliquer dans le monde de l'ORM. Il a rejoint
l'équipe Hibernate en 2003 et depuis, son travail est quasiment 100% open
source.

Emmanuel a dirigé l'implementation JPA d'Hibernate. Il a fondé et dirigé
Hibernate Search, Hibernate Validator. Sa dernière aventure est Hibernate OGM
mais il contribue aussi à Ceylon, Awestruct et quelques autres projects pendant
son temps libre.

Emmanuel est membre de l'expert group JPA 2.1 et spec lead de Bean Validation.
Il intervient régulièrement dans diverses conférences et JUGs, dont JavaOne,
JBoss World, Devoxx et est le co-auteur d'[Hibernate Search in
Action](/books/hsia/) publié par Manning. Il est aussi le fondateur et co-hôte
de deux podcasts: [Les Cast Codeurs](http://lescastcodeurs.com) (Français) et
[JBoss Community Asylum](http://asylum.jboss.org) (Anglais).

Vous pouvez le suivre sur twitter à
[@emmanuelbernard](http://twitter.com/emmanuelbernard).

## Pictures

Preferred

![Portrait](/images/headshot/EmmanuelBernardConference.jpg)

Squared

![Squared portrait](/images/headshot/EmmanuelBernardConferenceSquare.jpg)

    
